# Single_Colony_Project
Analysis scripts for this project

# Abstract
Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) infection results in a spectrum of clinical and histopathologic manifestations. It has been proposed that the environmental and immune pressures associated with different contexts of infection have different consequences for the associated bacterial populations, impacting drug susceptibility and the emergence of resistance. However, there is little concrete evidence for this model. We postulated that the evolutionary population dynamics of Mtb within individual patients would provide a durable record of the environmental pressures faced by the bacterium in vivo. We prospectively collected sputum samples from 18 newly diagnosed and treatment-naïve tuberculosis (TB) patients, and whole-genome sequenced 795 colony derived Mtb isolates to measure bacterial genetic diversity. The population diversity of Mtb in different patients varied substantially, with the pairwise SNP distances between any two bacilli within a single individual ranging from 0 to 27 SNPs. Phylogenetic reconstruction suggested that the majority of the bacterial population at the time of clinical presentation derived from the recent expansion of a subpopulation of Mtb within the infected individual. Mutant accumulation rates varied considerably between different bacilli isolated from the same individual, and where high rates of mutation were observed, the mutational spectrum was consistent with reactive oxygen species (ROS) induced mutagenesis. Elevated bacterial mutation rates were identified in isolates from HIV negative but not HIV positive individuals, suggesting that they were immune driven. These results support the model that mutagenesis of Mtb in vivo is modulated by the host environment, which could drive the emergence of variants associated with drug resistance in a host dependent manner.
